TODO:
To be brought under the CxG perspective!
(I am discussing the following papers within a cxg framework; Why is that plausible?)


Clitic Doubling and Clitic-Left Dislocation
in Spanish and Greek as Native and as L2 Grammars

// may be use as an additional evidence for the overgeneralization

Learners of Spanish, Greek (and Macedonian) have to
change from a phonetically null category into the use of overt agreement morphology in
subject and object position. The data indicate that English learners of Spanish or Greek,
especially the upper groups, show a tendency to prefer the clitic option. This can be
interpreted as the use of a generalized strategy that dictates the use of overt agreement
morphology in the form of clitics in these structures.

..
Features such as definiteness and
specificity which rule the choice of a clitic or an empty category in the target language do
play a role in these L2 learners ́ grammars. However, this role differs from the one they have
in native grammars. Their use appears to be based on the saliency of overt morphology in the
L2 grammars


------------------------

The L2 Acquisition of Spanish Focus
Laura Domínguez
//comment out, not really sure what the focus is;

Usage-based (role of input)

Multiple Options: but there are rules which constrain the forms and contexts of use
--> even advanced L2 Spanish learners probably don't have enough input to map each option to the respective usecase efficiently;
due to lack of input constructions are often transfered from the L1

CLLD Example:
El pastel, lo ha traído Sara


-------------------------------
First steps toward a usage-based theory
of language acquisition
Michael Tomasello

On usage based perspective

The linguistic skills that a person possesses at any given
moment in time - in the form of a ``structured inventory of symbolic
units'' - result from her accumulated experience with language across
the totality of usage events in her life. This accumulated linguistic
experience undergoes processes of entrenchment, due to repeated uses
of particular expressions across usage events, and abstraction, due to
type variation in constituents of particular expressions across usage
events. 

--------------------------------------
Constructing another Language—
Usage-Based Linguistics in Second
Language Acquisition
SØREN W. ESKILDSEN

--eingearbeitet

On usage based linguistics:

A core principle uniting these theories is the rejection of the syntax–lexicon
dichotomy ...

Language knowledge is seen as a structured inventory of symbolic units, that is form–meaning
patterns (Langacker 1987), of varying complexity (from morphemes to full
utterances) and abstractness (from fixed, perhaps idiosyncratic, concrete
formulas to abstract schematic templates which in turn sanction the single
instantiations).

UBL views language acquisition as experiential and item-based and
directed towards increased cognitive schematicity, going from formulas via
low-scope patterns to fully abstract constructions

Token and type frequencies are then thought to determine matters of
entrenchment and schematicity of recurring expressions and constructions.

In Tomasello’s (2003: 107) words, token frequency is frequency of a concrete
expression which ‘in the language learner’s experience tends to entrench
that expression in terms of the concrete words and morphemes involved’,
whereas type frequency ‘of a class of expressions determines the abstractness
or schematicity of the resulting construction’.

The maximalistic nature of the
linguistic inventory, however, guarantees that what is learned as specific is
not necessarily replaced over time by the more abstract constructional
knowledge acquired; rather, abstract patterns and their specific instantiations
may cohabit in the grammar (Achard 2007)

------------------------------------------------
Selective Attention and Transfer Phenomena in L2 Acquisition:
Contingency, Cue Competition, Salience, Interference, Overshadowing,
Blocking, and Perceptual Learning
NICK C. ELLIS

first language is rational in the sense that acquisition produces an
end-state model of language
--> This paper considers the apparent irrationalities of L2
acquisition, that is the shortcomings where input fails to become intake.


---------------------------------
================
May be Useful  =
================

Clitic Left Dislocation in Absence of Clitics: a
Study in Trilingual Acquisition
Megan Devlin et al.

Languages are English, Italian and Scottish Gaelic;
Interference between English and Italian is discussed;

Italian CLRD Topic Costruction seem to be transferred to English although the child doesn't really use them in Italian yet;

Bsp: He forget it the teddy

"We presented several arguments in favour of considering this a “deep transfer” of clitic
right dislocation structures from Italian, even though such structures are not present in the child’s
Italian output at the stage when these structures surface regularly in her English, since there were
no clitics present in her Italian at this stage."


-----------------------------------------------------
Information through Constructions: ‘Rough’ and ‘Fine’ Grammar
Eleonora Luzi

"Applying this concept to SLA means trying to draw up a network that envisages the development
pattern of a particular construction in the interlanguage. The underlying idea is that if constructions are
functionally related in the target language (TL), it seems reasonable to hypothesize that the
development of one construction would exploit these functional links. Moreover, one would expect that
certain links are exploited before others according to the complexity of the construction involved.
This kind of representation is scarcely used (or totally ignored) in SLA studies, where linear
representations (such as acquisition sequences) are usually preferred. "

"in displaying constructions within a network, the formal and
functional links between them can be traced in order to envisage formal and functional proximity
between structures exploited by learners while attempting to build the TL construction."

"Morpho-syntactic information transmission within and across phrases and
sentences is therefore acquired gradually in several phases: consciousness and emergence of the
phenomenon; first attempts at use; consolidation (that is, constructionalization) and regular production.
These phases can be schematized in two macro-phases: ‘rough’ grammar and ‘fine’ grammar."

Focus of the study: Italian left dislocation
"The Italian construction analyzed in this research is left-dislocation, a choice motivated by its
pragmatic and morpho-syntactic interlinked features. Indeed, regarding its function, left-dislocation is a
marked structure used to topicalize an element which would not be topicalized in unmarked contexts.
This means that there is no obligatory context in which it should be used, its use being an issue of
pragmatics."

-- use till here for basics? ----

Research question: Is direct object left-dislocation, that is, dislocation that requires obligatory
agreement between the dislocated phrase, the clitic and the past participle, the last dislocation to appear
in the interlanguage? In other words, is it possible to outline a sequence of acquisition that starts from
circumstancial and indirect object left-dislocations and ends with direct object left-dislocations, via
subject left-dislocations?

Hypothesis: Even though the information processing cognitive load of this particular type of
dislocation leads us to hypothesize that it would appear later in the interlanguage, pragmatic needs seem
to prevail over morpho-syntactic complexity: learners prefer to use this construction when they believe
the context requires it, despite its complexity and even though it may likely be produced incorrectly.

---> nicht Spanisch; keine direkte Referenzen auf Wechelwirkungen L1-L2; einige Gedanken über die CLLD Konstruktion;

------------------------------------------------
Topicalization and Left-Dislocation: A Functional Opposition Revisited
Michelle L. Gregory
Laura A. Michaelis

Allgemeine Untersuchung von Topik-/Left Dislocation Konstruktionen im Englischen

These: "we argue that the distinct uses of the construction[left dislocation] identified by Prince can be subsumed
under the general function of topic promotion. "
"While Prince claims that Topicalization is a more
pragmatically specialized construction than Left Dislocation, we argue that Left Dislocation has
equally restrictive and distinct use conditions, which reflect its status as a topic-promoting device."

