
-----------------

Method

https://web.cn.edu/kwheeler/reading_lit.html

Close Reading of a Literary Passage

To do a close reading, you choose a specific passage and analyze it in fine detail, as if with a magnifying glass. You then comment on points of style and on your reactions as a reader. Close reading is important because it is the building block for larger analysis. Your thoughts evolve not from someone else's truth about the reading, but from your own observations. The more closely you can observe, the more original and exact your ideas will be. To begin your close reading, ask yourself several specific questions about the passage. The following questions are not a formula, but a starting point for your own thoughts. When you arrive at some answers, you are ready to organize and write. You should organize your close reading like any other kind of essay, paragraph by paragraph, but you can arrange it any way you like.

I. First Impressions:

    What is the first thing you notice about the passage?
    What is the second thing?
    Do the two things you noticed complement each other? Or contradict each other?
    What mood does the passage create in you? Why?

II. Vocabulary and Diction:

    Which words do you notice first? Why? What is noteworthy about this diction?
    How do the important words relate to one another?
    Do any words seem oddly used to you? Why?
    Do any words have double meanings? Do they have extra connotations?
    Look up any unfamiliar words. For a pre-20th century text, look in the Oxford English Dictionary for possible outdated meanings. (The OED can only be accessed by students with a subscription or from a library computer that has a subscription. Otherwise, you should find a copy in the local library.)

III. Discerning Patterns:

    Does an image here remind you of an image elsewhere in the book? Where? What's the connection?
    How might this image fit into the pattern of the book as a whole?
    Could this passage symbolize the entire work? Could this passage serve as a microcosm--a little picture--of what's taking place in the whole work?
    What is the sentence rhythm like? Short and choppy? Long and flowing? Does it build on itself or stay at an even pace? What is the style like?
    Look at the punctuation. Is there anything unusual about it?
    Is there any repetition within the passage? What is the effect of that repetition?
    How many types of writing are in the passage? (For example, narration, description, argument, dialogue, rhymed or alliterative poetry, etc.)
    Can you identify paradoxes in the author's thought or subject?
    What is left out or kept silent? What would you expect the author to talk about that the author avoided?

IV. Point of View and Characterization:

    How does the passage make us react or think about any characters or events within the narrative?
    Are there colors, sounds, physical description that appeals to the senses? Does this imagery form a pattern? Why might the author have chosen that color, sound or physical description?
    Who speaks in the passage? To whom does he or she speak? Does the narrator have a limited or partial point of view? Or does the narrator appear to be omniscient, and he knows things the characters couldn't possibly know? (For example, omniscient narrators might mention future historical events, events taking place "off stage," the thoughts and feelings of multiple characters, and so on).

V. Symbolism:

    Are there metaphors? What kinds?
    Is there one controlling metaphor? If not, how many different metaphors are there, and in what order do they occur? How might that be significant?
    How might objects represent something else?
    Do any of the objects, colors, animals, or plants appearing in the passage have traditional connotations or meaning? What about religious or biblical significance?
    If there are multiple symbols in the work, could we read the entire passage as having allegorical meaning beyond the literal level?



-----------
[North2013]

"incipiently materialist
practice of close reading, based in an instrumental or (loosely speaking)
pragmatist aesthetics, directed towards an advanced utilitarian model
of aesthetic and practical education. This was taken up and co-opted
by the New Critics, who remade and institutionalized it as a thoroughly
idealist practice, based in a neo-Kantian aesthetics of disinterest and
transcendent value, directed towards religious cultural conservatism."

"rather unfortunate effects on literary studies today. One of them is
the widespread sense that “close reading” has its origins in Christian
hermeneutic practices, and that rejecting it may therefore seem
something of a progressive act—see my epigraph. Our poor sense of the
origins of the practice gives us the very misleading impression that it is
somehow, at root, a practice of autonomous or idealist aesthetics, and
as such originally or even necessarily dehistoricizing or depoliticizing."

"the general tenor of it as it comes through into
Practical Criticism in his line: “It is less important to like ‘good’ poetry and
dislike ‘bad,’ than to be able to use them both as a means of ordering
our minds” (327)"

"Richards’s most immediate target is the art-for-art’s-sake aestheticism of
the 1890s"

"For him, this means
shifting the emphasis away from the supposedly “objective” aesthetic
or formal qualities of the work of art considered in isolation, and onto
the nature of the relationship between the artwork and its most impor-
tant context—its audience."

"For Richards “close reading” was a way to intervene in the context of
reception, which is to say, the minds of actual, living readers. Criticism,
as Richards saw it, was to be a project of aesthetic education."

"aptitudes to be trained by a method that was repeatable, reliable, and
precise enough to take its place among the disciplines."

"active attempt to use literature as a tool of aesthetic education for the
improvement of people’s lives,"

\begin{comment}
  % Close reading
   [North2013]
* New Criticism unterstützt und versucht einen zeitlosen Kanon, aufgrund deren "intrinischen ästhethischen Werten" aufzubauen
* Bsp für Elitismus, eine Elite, die versucht ihre eigene priviligierte Stellung dadurch zu sichern
* Wer gehört dazu?: white, male, christian, property owners
* "It is to be noted that in both these cases the concern is ultimately to en-
sure that valid considerations about texts in themselves are distinguished
from invalid considerations about their effects, psychological or moral,
on their readers." --> die Objektivität, die uns die westliche patriarchale Tradizion der Wissensproduktion uns vorgauckelt
% "For him, this means shifting the emphasis away from the supposedly “objective” aesthetic or formal qualities of the work of art considered in isolation, and onto the nature of the relationship between the artwork and its most important context—its audience."(I.A. Richards)\cite{North2013}
--> ToDo: Need more sources on this one
* quote Brooks: "I believed, to set up a kind of scale: at the bottom, poems that
relied heavily on the principle of exclusion, left out too much of human
experience, and so were thin and over simple. They tended accordingly
toward sentimentality and general vapidity. Toward the top of the scale
were poems that used successfully a high degree of inclusion”" (Cleanth Brooks: “I. A. Richards and Practical Criticism”)
--> also sehr wohl gute von schlechten Werken trennen wollen; nen Kanon errichten
* "prop up a hiearchy of aethetic values"
* "enthusiastic embrace of the idea of a hierarchy"
* "aesthetic value residing solely in the text itself"
* "we have arrived at the sterile concern with hierarchy and canonicity that
will occupy much of Anglophone literary studies throughout the Cold
War period: a series of ultimately unresolvable debates about the exact
constitution of a universal canon, as if one could determine what was
“good” art and what was “bad” art without any reference to what the art
might be good or bad for."

* "much of the rest of Principles of Literary Criticism is devoted to trying to show how much of life that relationship involves. Morals and capacities for morals; pleasures and capacities for pleasure; opportunities and capacities for cognition and analysis—the aesthetic, considered in this contextual and instrumental sense, comes to overrun all the borders that Kant erects to divide the faculties."
* "far from trying, in proto-New Critical fashion, to strip works of their contexts in order to encourage a close attention to literary language “for its own sake,” Richards is in fact trying to find the most rigorous and precise way he can to put works of literature into a productive relation with their contexts of reception."
*  "For Richards “close reading” was a way to intervene in the context of reception, which is to say, the minds of actual, living readers."

  https://books.google.de/books?hl=de&lr=&id=Cbz7CwAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PA89&dq=close+reading&ots=8-Z-fTKNzq&sig=tkwM8Hs0aQs8blONWas-cwGtHpY#v=onepage&q=close%20reading&f=false
  On Developing Readers: Readings from Educational Leadership (EL Essentials) - ed. Marge Scherer; Verlag: ASCD, Alexandira, VA, USA
  9. Closing in On Close Reading - Nancy Boyles
  "Essentially, close reading means reading to uncover layers of meaning that lead to deep comprehension." (p.90)
\end{comment}



-------------

[Beehler1988]

"This practice of reading a text "closely" so as to squeeze every ounce of significance from it was usually taught in conjuction with the notion that each work has discoverable meanings, one of which will be \textit{the} meaning, but in order to "prove" which meaning has the status, the reader must offer evidence from the text "

"a new group of critics and educators who realized that such "close" readings were leading to "closed" readings."

"A "closed" reading, according to theorists like Roland Barthes and Stanley Fish, meant a reading which assumes that the finite essence of a text can be identified and that, therefore, the possibilities of the text are limited. Such assumptions led to debates among critics as to whose reading was right and whose was wrong. "

"A further consequence of this trend was the growing belief that only a select few, the academic elite, could hope to find satisfactionin reading a work of literature: unless one could discover the "true" meaning, there wasn't much point in wasting time with such a work."

"For Jay, the crucial question for students to ask is not, "What does it mean?" but "How are meanings made?" "

"Consequently, what we teach in the English classroom is not "literature" but ways of reading. By helping students to identify different methods, different positions from which to view a work, we help themto realize that texts do no "reveal" truth: they simply provide the field uponwhich meanings can be produced."

"students must be taught the pitfalls of careless reading, of succumbing to the illusion of closure created by the author. Students need questioning skills which will help them read critically and with awareness of the strategies which the author uses to position the reader in the text."

"As students read and discuss the nature of such narratives, they gain insight into the problematic quality of texts and of language itself, but they will also become more careful readers capable of the close reading necessary to effective interpretation."

-----------

[Gallop2007]

"When the New Critics introduced the methodology called close reading
in the years just before and after World War II, what it replaced was liter
ary history (the old historicism, we might call it)."

"It was about twenty years ago that English studies witnessed the rise
of new historicism: this burgeoning movement was not only the site of
brilliant critical performances but also a much needed corrective to the
ahistoricism then predominant. The time was ripe for such a course cor
rection: ahistoricism had been persuasively linked to sexism, racism, and
elitism; attacks on the canon had called into question the notion of time
less works; literary studies had been ahistorical for too long."

"an increasing num
ber of radical critics agreed with de Man here and complained that de
constructionist literary criticism as practiced in United States English
departments was in fact all too much like the old New Criticism?elitist,
canonical, and ahistorical."

"the fact is
that for more than three decades and most recently in the theory era,
literary studies in this country was dominated by the scholarly and espe
cially the pedagogical practice of close reading."
"These days, I worry about the fate of close reading."

"I would argue that the most valuable thing English ever had to offer was
the very thing that made us a discipline, that transformed us from cultured
gentlemen into a profession: close reading. Not because it is necessarily the
best way to read literature but because it, learned through practice with lit
erary texts, learned in literature classes, is a widely applicable skill, of value
not just to scholars in other disciplines but to a wide range of students
with many different futures. Students trained in close reading have been
known to apply it to diverse sorts of texts--newspaper articles, textbooks
in other disciplines, political speeches--and thus to discover things they
would not otherwise have noticed. This enhanced, intensified reading can
prove invaluable for many kinds of jobs as well as in their lives."

"Close reading made possible active learning; his
toricism returns us to an older, more authoritarian model of transmitting
preprocessed knowledge."

"The literature classroom has represented a real
alternative to the banking model: students had to encounter the text di
rectly and produce their own knowledge; close reading meant they could
not just apply knowledge produced elsewhere, not just parrot back what
the teacher or textbook had told them"

"For more than three decades, antielitist pedagogy has crystallized
around Paulo Freire's criticism of the banking model, in which the teacher
deposited knowledge in the student. This model remains dominant in
most academic disciplines where there is a huge gap between scholars
producing knowledge and classrooms where students receive, repeat, and
apply that knowledge. The literature classroom has represented a real
alternative to the banking model: students had to encounter the text di
rectly and produce their own knowledge; close reading meant they could
not just apply knowledge produced elsewhere, not just parrot back what
the teacher or textbook had told them"

"I would argue that close reading poses an ongoing
threat to easy, reductive generalization, that it is a method for resisting
and calling into question our inevitable tendency to bring things together
in smug, overarching conclusions. I would argue that close reading may in
fact be the best antidote we have to the timeless and the universal"

-------------

[Kolodny1980]

``feminist literary critics
are essentially seeking to discover how aesthetic value is assigned
in the first place, where it resides (in the text or in the reader), and,
most importantly, what validity may really be claimed by our aes-
thetic "judgments." What ends do those judgments serve, the fem-
inist asks; and what conceptions of the world or ideological stances
do they (even if unwittingly) help to perpetuate''

"What was at stake was not so much literature
or criticism as such, but the historical, social, and ethical conse-
quences of women's participation in, or exclusion from, either
enterprise"
-> use in conclusion?

"Kennard appropriately cau-
tions us against drawing from her work any simplistically reductive
thesis about the mimetic relations between art and life. Yet her
approach nonetheless suggests that what is important about a fic-
tion is not whether it ends in a death or a marriage, but what the
symbolic demands of that particular conventional ending imply
about the values and beliefs of the world that engendered it"
--> can be used as an argument in the analysis itself?

"The power relations inscribed in the form of conven-
tions within our literary inheritance, these critics argue, reify the
encodings of those same power relations in the culture at large."
--> what is written about adorns the subjects with importance, not the other way round, vgl auch "Little Women"

auch
"these critics also insist upon exam-
ining not only the mirroring of life in art, but also the normative
impact of art on life."

über die Ordnungs-Funktion des Kanons:
""The way art helps
people to order, interpret, mythologize, or dispose of their own
experience," she declares, may be "complex and often ambiguous,
but it is not impossible to define.""
(citing Robinson)

"For what we are
asking be scrutinized are nothing less than shared cultural assump-
tions so deeply rooted and so long ingrained that, for the most
part, our critical colleagues have ceased to recognize them as such."
-> weswegen Nerudas Liebesgedichte als "universell" gelesen werden


"That is, that
the fact of canonization puts any work beyond questions of estab-
lishing its merit and, instead, invites students to offer only increas-
ingly more ingenious readings and interpretations, the purpose of
which is to validate the greatness already imputed by canonization."
--> also sind Readings von Sachen im Kanon meist auch noch langweilig, weil sie nur nochmal beteuern wie toll das Werk ist

"The very fact
of our critical training within the strictures imposed by an estab-
lished canon of major works and authors, however, repeatedly
deflects us from such questions. Instead, we find ourselves end-
lessly responding to the riposte that the overwhelmingly male
presence among canonical authors was only an accident of history-
and never intentionally sexist-coupled with claims to the "obvious"
aesthetic merit of those canonized texts."

"an established canon functions as a
model by which to chart the continuities and discontinuities, as
well as the influences upon and the interconnections between
works, genres, and authors. That model we tend to forget, how-
ever, is of our own making."
-> Weitere Kritik am Kanon: Es ist ein Model; und alle Modelle sind Vereinfachungen -> sie setzen Fokus auf bestimmte Features und verdecken/ignorieren andere;
-> Mit dieser Aussage als Kanon-Definition starten und dann infrage stellen wie er zustande kommt.
-> Je nachdem welche Werte und welche Prinzipien zur Model-Bildung wir ins Zentrum stellen, entstehen dabei verschiedene Modelle (also kann ein ganz anderer Kanon zustande kommen)

"the conclusion
that we appropriate meaning from a text according to what we
need (or desire) or, in other words, according to the critical assump-
tions or predispositions (conscious or not) that we bring to it. And
we appropriate different meanings, or report different gleanings, at
different times-even from the same text-according to our changed
assumptions, circumstances, and requirements."
-> Je nachdem wer zu welcher Zeit ein Werk liest, entdeckt die Person dadrin verschiedene Sachen.
In fact, wenn wir Sachen wiederholt lesen, lesen wir auch jedes Mal beim selben Werk neue Sachen rein, je nachdem was wir für Erfahrungen gesammelt haben in der Zwischenzeit, welche Fragen uns in dem Moment primär beschäftigen, etc.

"What makes it so exciting, of course, is
that it can be constantly releamed and refined, so as to provide
either an individual or an entire reading community, over time,
with infinite variations of the same text. It can provide that, but,
I must add, too often it does not"
Quote Komilitonin mit: "universell menschliches fleischliches Begehren" -> und argue that we need critical feminist thinking education in order to shift perspectives in such readings.
Fast der ganze Kurs mit Ausnahme der Professorin und ein paar Studentinnen, die über das Durschnittsalter von 22 waren, scheinten mit der Leseweise kein Problem zu haben.
Ich frage mich was die selbe Person heute darüber sagen würde, wenn sie die Gedichte nochmal liest.

"what we are taught to read well and with pleasure,
when we are young, predisposes us to certain specific kinds of
adult reading tastes."
"The delight we learn to take in the mastery
of these interpretive strategies is then often mistakenly construed
as our delight in reading specific texts, especially in the case of
works that would otherwise be unavailable or even offensive to
us."
-> delight from successfully applying established paradigms
(vgl me and poetry)

", I have been
able to enter that text through interpretive strategies which allow
me to displace less comfortable observations with others to which
I have been taught pleasurably to attend"

"For, simply
put, we read well, and with pleasure, what we already know how
to read; and what we know how to read is to a large extent depend-
ent upon what we have already read (works from which we've
developed our expectations and learned our interpretive strategies).
What we then choose to read-and, by extension, teach and there-
by "canonize"-usually follows upon our previous reading. Radical
breaks are tiring, demanding, uncomfortable, and sometimes wholly
beyond our comprehension."

"we must re-
examine not only our aesthetics but, as well, the inherent biases
and assumptions informing the critical methods which (in part)
shape our aesthetic responses."

Feministische Kritik stellt uns folgende Fragen:
- how are aesthetic values assigned
- do they reside with the reader or the text?
- what ends do the judgements serve?
- what value systems do they help perpetuate?


"What unites and repeatedly invigorates feminist literary criti-
cism, then, is neither dogma nor method but, as I have indicated
earlier, an acute and impassioned attentiveness to the ways in
which primarily male structures of power are inscribed (or en-
coded) within our literary inheritance; the consequences of that
encoding for women-as characters, as readers, and as writers;
and, with that, a shared analytic concern for the implications of
that encoding not only for a better understanding of the past, but
also for an improved reordering of the present and future as well."
-> Das ist meine Perspektive für die "feministischen Lektüren"
